## `FractionalExponents`






### `initFractionalExponents()` (public)



should be executed after construction (too large for the constructor)

### `power(uint256 _baseN, uint256 _baseD, uint32 _expN, uint32 _expD) → uint256, uint8` (internal)



General Description:
    Determine a value of precision.
    Calculate an integer approximation of (_baseN / _baseD) ^ (_expN / _expD) * 2 ^ precision.
    Return the result along with the precision used.

Detailed Description:
    Instead of calculating "base ^ exp", we calculate "e ^ (log(base) * exp)".
    The value of "log(base)" is represented with an integer slightly smaller than "log(base) * 2 ^ precision".
    The larger "precision" is, the more accurately this value represents the real value.
    However, the larger "precision" is, the more bits are required in order to store this value.
    And the exponentiation function, which takes "x" and calculates "e ^ x", is limited to a maximum exponent (maximum value of "x").
    This maximum exponent depends on the "precision" used, and it is given by "maxExpArray[precision] >> (MAX_PRECISION - precision)".
    Hence we need to determine the highest precision which can be used for the given input, before calling the exponentiation function.
    This allows us to compute "base ^ exp" with maximum accuracy and without exceeding 256 bits in any of the intermediate computations.
    This functions assumes that "_expN < 2 ^ 256 / log(MAX_NUM - 1)", otherwise the multiplication should be replaced with a "safeMul".
    Since we rely on unsigned-integer arithmetic and "base < 1" ==> "log(base) < 0", this function does not support "_baseN < _baseD".

### `generalLog(uint256 x) → uint256` (internal)



computes log(x / FIXED_1) * FIXED_1.
This functions assumes that "x >= FIXED_1", because the output would be negative otherwise.

### `floorLog2(uint256 _n) → uint8` (internal)



computes the largest integer smaller than or equal to the binary logarithm of the input.

### `findPositionInMaxExpArray(uint256 _x) → uint8 res` (internal)



the global "maxExpArray" is sorted in descending order, and therefore the following statements are equivalent:
- This function finds the position of [the smallest value in "maxExpArray" larger than or equal to "x"]
- This function finds the highest position of [a value in "maxExpArray" larger than or equal to "x"]

### `generalExp(uint256 _x, uint8 _precision) → uint256` (internal)



this function can be auto-generated by the script 'PrintFunctionGeneralExp.py'.
it approximates "e ^ x" via maclaurin summation: "(x^0)/0! + (x^1)/1! + ... + (x^n)/n!".
it returns "e ^ (x / 2 ^ precision) * 2 ^ precision", that is, the result is upshifted for accuracy.
the global "maxExpArray" maps each "precision" to "((maximumExponent + 1) << (MAX_PRECISION - precision)) - 1".
the maximum permitted value for "x" is therefore given by "maxExpArray[precision] >> (MAX_PRECISION - precision)".

### `optimalLog(uint256 x) → uint256` (internal)



computes log(x / FIXED_1) * FIXED_1
Input range: FIXED_1 <= x <= OPT_LOG_MAX_VAL - 1
Auto-generated via 'PrintFunctionOptimalLog.py'
Detailed description:
- Rewrite the input as a product of natural exponents and a single residual r, such that 1 < r < 2
- The natural logarithm of each (pre-calculated) exponent is the degree of the exponent
- The natural logarithm of r is calculated via Taylor series for log(1 + x), where x = r - 1
- The natural logarithm of the input is calculated by summing up the intermediate results above
- For example: log(250) = log(e^4 * e^1 * e^0.5 * 1.021692859) = 4 + 1 + 0.5 + log(1 + 0.021692859)

### `optimalExp(uint256 x) → uint256` (internal)



computes e ^ (x / FIXED_1) * FIXED_1
input range: 0 <= x <= OPT_EXP_MAX_VAL - 1
auto-generated via 'PrintFunctionOptimalExp.py'
Detailed description:
- Rewrite the input as a sum of binary exponents and a single residual r, as small as possible
- The exponentiation of each binary exponent is given (pre-calculated)
- The exponentiation of r is calculated via Taylor series for e^x, where x = r
- The exponentiation of the input is calculated by multiplying the intermediate results above
- For example: e^5.521692859 = e^(4 + 1 + 0.5 + 0.021692859) = e^4 * e^1 * e^0.5 * e^0.021692859


